- Preprocessor directives are lines included in the code of programs preceded by a hash sign (#).

- These lines are not program statements but directives for the preprocessor.

-The preprocessor examines the code before actual compilation of code begins and resolves all these directives before any code is actually generated by regular statements.

- These preprocessor directives extend only across a single line of code. As soon as a newline character is found, the preprocessor directive is ends. No semicolon (;) is expected at the end of a preprocessor directive. The only way a preprocessor directive can extend through more than one line is by preceding the newline character at the end of the line by a backslash (\)

** Preprocessor Directives in C **

- There are several preprocessor directives supported by C. These are:

1. #define directive
2. #include directive
3. #undef directive
4. #ifdef directive
5. #ifndef directive
6. #if directive
7. #else directive
8. #elif directive
9. #endif directive
10. #error directive
11. #pragma directive

** #define directive **

- The #define directive is used to define a constant.

- The general form of a #define directive is: #define identifier value

- When the preprocessor encounters this directive, it replaces any occurrence of identifier in the code with value.

- The value can be any valid C expression and identifier can be any valid identifier.

- The #define directive does not terminate with a semicolon.

- The #define directive can be used in the following ways:

1. To define a constant
2. To define a macro

** #include directive **

- The #include directive is used to include a file in the source code program.

- The general form of a #include directive is: #include <filename>

- When the preprocessor encounters this directive, it replaces the directive with the entire text of the file filename.

- The filename is enclosed in angle brackets (<>) if the file is a system header file.

- The filename is enclosed in double quotes ("") if the file is a user-defined header file.

- The #include directive can be used in the following ways:

1. To include a system header file
2. To include a user-defined header file
